# NCAA March madness
The problem is a Kaggle challenge posed by the NCAA and Google to “Apply Machine Learning to NCAA March Madness”,  https://www.kaggle.com/c/mens-machine-learning-competition-2019/overview. The task was to produce a model that predicts the probabilities of each possible matchup during the 2019 tournament given game data for the regular season and previous seasons.
The motivation for this project was to see if my model could confidently predict the outcomes for games by incorporating a rating system. Since teams do not all play each other in the regular season it is difficult to measure relative team strength against many of the teams that will be meeting for the first time in the tourney. 
The features include traditional basketball metrics such as rebounds and field goals. There are  also features that are not directly measured but calculated from numerous other features such as offensive and defensive win share. Since the dataset contains numerous feautures, it was a bit of a challenge determining which features are most efficient for predicting the model.  
I implemented Microsoft Trueskill algorithm to create team ratings based on their regular season performance. This rating system is created using only the win-loss records for each team. I ran the trueskill algorithm to rate each team that competed in the tourney from 1986 to 2018 and used StandardScaler to normalize all our ratings and then assuming that the team with the higher rating should win we trained our model using the actual tournament records for each year since 1986.
